Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Heritage Lottery Fund project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
Interviewee Anna Rogers.
The location of the interview is the Swicker office.
And today's date is the 21st of October 2015.
Anna, before we start, would you be kind enough to spell your name in full?
A-N-N-A-R-O-G-E-R-S.
Correct.
Thank you.
Anna, when did you first get involved with Cardiff Carnival?
Well, it was back in 2012 when we first got asked to take part in the street performance element of the carnival.
It was a really good opportunity for us as it was the first year I'd started Lindy Hop Cardiff.
And it was in August, I believe, so it was even just the month before we launched our first course.
So for us, a great chance to show Cardiff what Lindy Hop was and what it looked like and inspire people to join in.
When I first set up Lindy Hop Cardiff, it was a real opportunity because there wasn't currently any other Lindy Hop classes or events,
no scene to speak of that I really wanted to develop here to emulate the other cities.
Would you accept the title of the godmother of Cardiff?
It's an honorary and honourable title. I'd go for it if I was you.
Yeah, I'd like to think that I started something new in Cardiff.
And the thing that I found that was initially tricky was a lot of people didn't know what Lindy Hop was.
When you say that word, people don't recognise it as a dance form that's in the public consciousness.
So we had a bit of effort to introduce it to Cardiff, to really show what it was.
Even saying swing dance to people, people sometimes don't really get whether it's rock and roll or jive.
And it's actually something different. It predates those type of dances.
And it's got a real, the real spirit of Lindy Hop really lent itself really well to the carnival
because it's all about joy and fun and inclusivity and community.
It's not just a performance style. It's not about showing off.
It's about a way of connecting with other people in a creative way and in a way that you do through an art form,
through music and dance rather than just showcasing and showing off and being a performer.
It's more inclusive than that.
Yes. I can remember back in 2012 that the year before we were trying to think how we could help grow the carnival.
We had this idea of having a broad church definition.
And whilst the carnival camp, the free workshops and the parade are always like the spine of what we do and have done for well over a quarter of a century.
The idea was then to try and breathe some life into the city centre.
But probably more importantly, to provide a platform, a showcase, to show on this one day all these participatory arts opportunities
from capoeira to belly dance to Lindy Hop.
There was all this going on in the samba galettes, the drumming group who are looking for, who have an open door policy, who want to welcome other people on board.
And you'll still meet people who will say, well, I don't know then.
And the idea was to actually, as I say, provide a platform for those.
And so I was delighted when Cardiff Lindy Hop joined us on that first occasion.
And if I'm right, you're thinking you were dancing in the haze, is that right?
Yeah, the haze was a really great place to do it with all.
It's just so central to Cardiff and flat and a nice big open space for us to dance around in.
Lindy Hop takes up quite a lot of space, so it was really good to have that opportunity.
But yeah, you say about inviting along all different types of art groups.
And that was something we really enjoyed because we realized there were people in our dance group even that we noticed were in these other groups.
So we were able to go along and support them as well.
Like we had someone in samba galettes and also a band I used to play with, Wunder Brass, were playing.
And it was really nice to see not only that we had all these different groups,
but that they weren't isolated and that we all actually interconnected and supported each other.
And again, with Wunder Brass was great because I remember you scheduled it often that we went on after Wunder Brass,
which was really nice to me because it kind of connected my two interests of music and dance.
And I remember last the year before last 2014, I had a really good memory where we'd been asked to come on and dance to their final track.
And I thought it would just be me and my dance partner, Olly, because it's quite intimidating just to go on and start dancing.
And so us two got up and we were like, yeah, let's go take to the floor for the band.
And then without me realizing, all of my dancers joined in until so everyone took to the floor, completely no fear.
And it was really nice because they didn't know the track.
So just spontaneously to be able to improvise, it kind of made me proud of them to think how much confidence they'd gained in such a short space of time,
just to be able to get up in front of a whole haze full of people to dance to and we're all band and friends was really nice.
So, yeah, it was just a really positive event to be involved with.
And like I say, it kind of tied in well with the ethos of what we're doing as well with our dance group and everything.
What can I say other than Anna Rogers, I hereby award you the totally unbankable but invisible but nevertheless real award of you are a Cardiff Carnival hero.
Oh, thank you. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you.